
# Search links
 - [PubMed - Articles affiliated with Calico](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=calico%5BAffiliation%5D)


# Articles and Videos
TODO: Summarize the articles below.

- [2013.09.18 - TIME - Opinion by Aubrey de Grey - Google’s Calico: the War on Aging Has Truly Begun](http://ideas.time.com/2013/09/18/finally-the-war-on-aging-has-truly-begun-2/)
  - In his 2014.07.28 talk at Google he says he was approached by Time to write this in reaction to the announcement of Calico (it was announced via Time magazine).
  - *"Now is the right time for a commercial entity to get heavily involved. (...) With Google’s decision to direct its astronomical resources to a concerted assault on aging, that battle may have been transcended: once financial limitations are removed, curmudgeons no longer matter. That’s why I think it is no exaggeration to state that the end of the beginning may have arrived. I won’t go so far as to say that my crusading job is done, but for sure it just got a whole lot easier."*
- [2013.09.28 - Aubrey de Grey - Google vs Death: an Anti Aging Initiative](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1_Cr3XeVk7k)
  - He discusses the then-recent announcement of Calico
- [2015.08.25 - mendelspod - Brian Kennedy and Aubrey de Grey on their Converging Approaches to Aging Research](https://mendelspod.com/podcasts/brian-kennedy-and-aubrey-de-grey-their-converging-approaches-aging-research/)

  ([Transcript excerpt taken from reasonattlm on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10809971))

  Moderator: What response have both of you had to the entrance of Calico, the Google company, and Human Longevity, Craig Venter's new company?
  
  Aubrey: (...) Calico have set themselves up as a completely unusual company with the goal of doing something very long-term, however long it takes, they want to actually fix aging. They said so - Larry Page was perfectly clear about that. The question is how are they going about it, and that's getting really interesting. **The first thing that they've done, which I feel is an absolutely spectacularly good move, is to bifurcate their work into a relatively short-term track and a long-term track**. The short term track involves drug discovery for age-related diseases, doing deals with big companies like Abbvie, and so on. That's all very wonderful and all very lucrative in the relatively short term, and has more or less nothing to do with the mission for which Calico was set up - but **it is a fabulous way to insulate the stuff that they do that is to do with why Calico was set up from shareholder pressure**. It gets a little more complicated though. So then on the long term side, the stuff being led by David Botstein and Cynthia Kenyon, the question is how are they going about their mission. Of course an awful lot of this unknown because they are a secretive company, but from the perspective of whom they are hiring, and what kinds of work those people have done in the past, one can certainly say that they are not just focusing on one approach. They are interested in diversity. **My only real concern is that they may be emphasizing a curiosity-driven long term exploratory approach to an unnecessary degree**. I'm all for finding out more and more about aging, but I'm also all for using what we've already found out to the best of our ability to try stuff and see what we can do. I should emphasize that this is only my impression from a very limited amount of information available, but **my impression is that it is perhaps turning into an excessively curiosity-driven, excessively basic science, inadequately translational outfit. And that's kind of what I feared when Botstein came along in the first place, because he's on record as saying he doesn't have a translational bone in his body.** Now Brian could obviously say a lot more if he wants to, as he's done a deal with Calico.
  
  Brian: Let me start by saying that I think its great that these big companies are getting into the game. Almost no matter what happens that is going to help the field get more people, more private sector people involved, maybe get Big Pharma involved, and so I think it is a good thing. I can't say too much about Calico because we have a relationship with them, but I will say that I think it is an interesting challenge when all of a sudden a lot of money is on the table, and very good people are hired to say "go solve this problem," and they haven't been thinking about that problem until a month ago. So I think what we're going to see with Calico is that they're going to continue to evolve as they go forward, and I think it will be very interesting to see the kinds of stuff they choose to do, and it may be very different two years or three years from now.
  
  Moderator: You were saying in the panel we were just at that you thought it was a game-changer.
  
  Brian: I think it adds great momentum, and I think it will be equally important to really get Big Pharma to get into this game too. It is easy to say you've got a ton of money, but what is a ton of money? If you're going to start doing real clinical trials, phase III clinical trials, it takes more than a ton of money; Big Pharma has to come in. Getting Abbvie involved is a good step, but it would also be good if everyone else starts saying this is the place to be.
- [2015.12.28 - Recode - What's He Building in There? The Stealth Attempt to Defeat Aging at Google's Calico.](https://www.recode.net/2015/12/28/11621734/the-stealth-attempt-to-defeat-aging-at-googles-calico)
  - [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10806002)
- [2015.12.28 - Quora - Aubrey's answer to "Does SENS Research Foundation have plans to start collaborating with, or to collaborate more closely with Calico, Human Longevity Inc., and/or Alcor Life Extension Foundation?"](https://www.quora.com/Does-SENS-Research-Foundation-have-plans-to-start-collaborating-with-or-to-collaborate-more-closely-with-Calico-Human-Longevity-Inc-and-or-Alcor-Life-Extension-Foundation)
  - [Aubrey:] Calico: we hope so, but **they have basically blown us off so far**. They are being quite secretive about their plans, but **from the range of people they are hiring they have not yet really got the message that damage repair is the way to go**.
- [2016.07.19 - Reddit - Futurology - Aubrey de Grey AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/Futurology/comments/4t65ay/aubrey_de_grey_ama_ask_about_the_quest_to_cure/d5hzyz6/)
  - Q: *You recently stated you were disappointed in Calico so far. Have you seen any evidence to change your mind on that view?*
  - A: *No.*
- [2016.11.24 - Quora - Aubrey's answer to "How is SENS research on longetivity different from Calico (owned by Google)?"](https://www.quora.com/How-is-SENS-research-on-longetivity-different-from-Calico-owned-by-Google)
  - [Aubrey:] Calico are being quite tight-lipped about their activities (as most private companies that don't need to raise money tend to be!), so to some extent one can only guess. But **from their pattern of hiring, it's a good bet that they are focusing on trying to understand aging better, as a step towards figuring out how to postpone it**. That's not surprising when you have a chief science officer (David Botstein) who is on public record that he doesn't have a translational bone in his body, but **it's unfortunate, because the field has moved on from that attitude and it is now entirely orthodox to think in terms of intervention based on what is already known about aging, i.e. without finding out any more fundamental truths**. We have of course tried to educate them on this, but **thus far they have basically blown us off**.
- [2016.11.24 - Quora - Aubrey's answer to "Why doesn't Larry Page of Alphabet Inc. give Aubrey de Grey's SENS Research Foundation all the money it needs to do what must be done?"](https://www.quora.com/Why-doesnt-Larry-Page-of-Alphabet-Inc-give-Aubrey-de-Greys-SENS-Research-Foundation-all-the-money-it-needs-to-do-what-must-be-done)
  - [Aubrey:] An even better question would be "Why didn't he donate a decade ago when Peter Thiel did?" In September 2005 there was a small dinner party hosted by Peter at the Four Seasons in San Francisco, which was the first time the either I or Cynthia Kenyon had met either Peter or Larry. Since then, Peter has funded SENS to the tune of around $6M (though for sure we wish he'd give more!), and Cynthia to a much lesser degree. Larry has gone the other way (insofar as Cynthia is now at Calico). Neither Peter nor Larry has been short of relevant scientific information. So **I guess the message is that there is no way to understand the decision-making process of wealthy people**.
- [2016.12.15 - MIT Technology Review - Google’s Long, Strange Life-Span Trip](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/603087/googles-long-strange-life-span-trip/)
  - **Botstein says a “best case” scenario is that Calico will have something profound to offer the world in 10 years.** That time line explains why the company declines media interviews. “There will be nothing to say for a very long time, except for some incremental scientific things. That is the problem.”
- [2017.04.28 - Vox - Google is super secretive about its anti-aging research. No one knows why.](https://www.vox.com/science-and-health/2017/4/27/15409672/google-calico-secretive-aging-mortality-research)
