

- 2016.12.02 - Nathan Wailes - At the Stanford Graduate School of Business
  - [Audio recording](https://goo.gl/DDkzTx) - Question starts at 33:56.
  - Nathan Wailes (NW): Hi, I'm actually a big fan. I've done quite a lot of research into WhatsApp.
    
    Brian Acton (BA): Uh-oh.
    
    NW: I don't get often the opportunity to talk to someone who's worth quite as much as you are, and so if I can only ask one question, I'd actually like to ask a question that's not about WhatsApp.
    
    BA: Go for it.
    
    NW: So, you know, if you were to go back a thousand years (BA: A thousand years...) and tell people that men would be flying through the air and they would walk on the moon, people would look at you like you're crazy. (BA: Yes.) And so, umm, Marc Andreessen was here just a couple weeks ago, and he pointed out that 90% of the scientists who have ever been alive are alive right now, and there's a guy in Mountain View named Aubrey de Grey--he used to be an AI researcher, and he's been working in, uh, [I couldn't remember the name of his field: "gerontology"] another industry for the past 20 years, and he thinks that there's a real chance that if you put enough money in the right direction, you could get, within ten years, a mouse that would not age anymore. (BA: Sure.) So, I guess my question is, if you've talked to Mark Zuckerberg and these other guys that are worth quite a lot of money, this seems like it's a really big deal. And so I was just wondering what you guys think about that.
    
    BA: Um, well my personal thoughts--I can't actually speak about my colleagues or peers; I have to say that **healthcare and life extension aren't topics that are normally talked about**--although occasionally we talk about nanny care, because...small children and whatnot. It's like, "Oh, what'd your nanny do? What'd your nanny do?" Interestingly enough **it is a topic that I follow. I have heard of Aubrey. I've read a couple of his blog posts and stuff. It's an interesting idea. I don't know enough about it to exert any sort of more influence. I even thought to myself, "If I was to direct any funds anywhere, who would I direct them to?" And I couldn't separate the real science from the charlatans, right? I'm just, I'm not equipped to do that. I wouldn't even know how to do that.** (NW: Right.) I'm better equipped to do philanthropic work, because **my wife and I have set up a philanthropic entity, but that's much more nuts-and-bolts, like food / clothing / shelter of very poor individuals** or disenfranchised individuals in the world. **The topic of what we can do with health and life extension is a great one, I like to read about it and talk about it; I read the reddit futurology group, I've read Ray Kurzweil's books, I'm definitely minded in that way; I'm somewhat a bystander though, inasmuch as I just look to see what happens that may help us. I'd love to live a lot longer than my projected 83.5 years.**
  - Comments:
    - "a mouse that would not age anymore" is not a perfectly-accurate description of Aubrey's prediction. What he said was that you could develop treatments that would allow mice that were already two-thirds through their life-expectancy and allow them to live for three times longer than they would be expected to live from that point (so, in total the mice would have lived for 5/3 or 166% of their 'normal' life expectancy). ([Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8iYpxRXlboQ&t=19m22s), look at the bottom-half of the slide)
