

##### Stuff to file away

- [Methuselah Foundation - Challenges to the Credibility of SENS](https://web.archive.org/web/20080912155953/http://www.mfoundation.org:80/index.php?pagename=credibility)

# Articles and Papers

 - [2006 - SENS - Defeat of aging - utopia or foreseeable scientific reality?](http://www.sens.org/files/pdf/Burd-PP.pdf)
   - This is a good summary of his argument.
   - Summary / Key Quotes:
     - **I estimate a 50% chance that they will arrive within 25 years given adequate funding.** I also explain why, even though these therapies will initially confer only perhaps 30 additional years of healthy life, those who benefit from them will very probably also benefit from progressively improved therapies, thereby maintaining “life extension escape velocity” and avoiding death from age-related causes at any age, with the result that (barring global catastrophe) many of them will attain four-digit lifespans.
     - **Aging is the set of side-effects of metabolism** that alter the composition of the body over time to make it progressively less capable of self-maintenance and thereby, eventually, progressively less functional.
     - As noted, we must also specify a degree of progress that can be considered an appropriate milestone. The one that I have championed in recent years, with the moniker **“Robust Mouse Rejuvenation” (RMR), is to treble the remaining average lifespan of a cohort of naturally long-lived mice that are already 2/3 through their natural lifespan before any intervention (whether genetic, pharmacological or dietary) is begun**. Long-lived mouse strains typically live to three years of age on average, so this means initiative a protocol on such mice at the age of two years and giving them an average age at death of five years.
     - **I recently proposed an anti-cancer strategy termed WILT (Whole-body Interdiction of Lengthening of Telomeres)** that is as ambitious as it is audacious: the use of both ex vivo and somatic gene therapy to delete the genes for telomerase and (as and when they are identified) ALT (Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres) from as many of our cells as possible. This will have deleterious side effects that are obvious and daunting: telomere shortening will irresistibly eliminate the stem cell pools that maintain all our continually-renewing tissues, such as the blood, the gut and the skin. My proposal is to avert these consequences by periodic replenishment of our stem cell pools with new cells that also lack genes for telomere elongation but have had their telomeres extended ex vivo to normal lengths with exogenous telomerase.
     - **Once RMR is achieved, I am convinced that society’s attitude to the postponement of human aging will become unrecognisable.** I have therefore predicted that there is a 50% chance of our achieving a comparable advance in human life extension within 15 years after we achieve RMR. This human milestone, which I rather unimaginatively term “Robust Human Rejuvenation” or RHR, is not in my formulation precisely proportional to RMR: rather than a trebling of the remaining lifespan of people who are already 2/3 of the way to the prevailing average age at death, I define it as only a doubling. This means roughly 25-30 years of extra healthy life for people who are 55 when treatment begins.
     
       Why have I chosen a relatively toned-down version of RMR to define as RHR? Simply, because 25- 30 years is a familiar duration in the history of technology, and specifically in that part of the history of many technologies which, in respect of life extension, I will now discuss. How long does it take, following some fundamental technological breakthrough, for that technology to progress by incremental refinements to a stage beyond that which the architects of the original breakthrough could reasonably have contemplated? The answer seems rather reliably to be in the 20-30 year range. Lindbergh flew the Atlantic 24 years after the Wright brothers’ first flight. Commercial jetliners first flew 22 years after that, and supersonic airliners 20 years after that. In computing, the personal computer arrived about 28 years after the first electronic computer and the first convenient laptops arrived about 20 years later. In medicine, the discovery of antibiotics followed the publicising of the germ theory by about 30 years and was in turn followed, after another 25 years, by the development of methods to manufacture vaccines specific for a particular disease. [NW: This part doesn't sound very persuasive to me...]
       
       The implications of this pattern for the lives of people who are in middle age or younger at the time that RHR is achieved is clear, but no less dramatic for that. Put simply, there is a very high probability that the 25-30 years of good health conferred on its recipients by the first-generation panel of rejuvenation therapies (defined as those which achieve RHR) will suffice for the development of much more thorough and comprehensive therapies, capable of delivering more like a century of extra life to those who are in relatively good health at the time those therapies arrive. This is where the longevity escape velocity (LEV) concept arises. The recipients of the first-generation therapies – the ones that gave only around 30 years of extra healthy life – will, at least if sociopolitical pressures do not intervene, mostly also be among the beneficiaries of the secondgeneration ones, since they will be in the same degree of health at that time as they were when the first-generation therapies arrived. The same logic of course applies indefinitely into the future, just so long as the rate of progress in improving the comprehensiveness of the therapies continues to outstrip the rate at which the remaining imperfections in those therapies allow the accumulation of eventually pathogenic damage.
 - [2015.06.01 - Rejuvenation Research - Longevity Sticker Shock: The One Remaining Obstacle to Widespread Credentialed Support for Rejuvenation Biotechnology](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4491156/#B2)
   - Summary / Key Quotes:
     - There was recently a report from the United Kingdom on the likely trajectory of anti-aging biomedical research.
     - Regenerative medicine [the approach SENS is advocating] was considered by the experts to have the greatest potential for delaying ageing.
     - However, throughout the article, discussions of longevity consist entirely of slowing aging down, rather than reversing it, as the term 'regenerative medicine' would imply.
     - **The painful truth is that most of my colleagues in the biogerontology community do not want to be associated with the prospect of what journalists insist on calling “immortality.” They are petrified of the “sticker shock” that such talk induces**—of the knee-jerk negative reactions that they see it inducing among those policy-makers upon whose favor their funding ultimately depends.
     - Why am I so sure of the above?
       - The "longevity escape velocity" concept is vastly *less* arguable than the current SENS program [repairing the seven types of damage in the next few decades and getting an extra 30 years of healthy life], and yet it elicits vastly *more* opprobrium.
       -  I see no alternative explanation for this abandonment of rationality, other than sheer rabbit-in-headlights petrification of association with an idea that might induce ridicule in the corridors of power.
     - What is to be done?
       - I will continue to give straight answers.
